---
last_modified_on: "2021-06-26"
title: MongoDB
description: "How to set up and use a MongoDB database"
---

import Alert from '@site/src/components/Alert';

<Alert type="warning">

WORK IN PROGRESS - THIS DOCUMENTATION IS OUTDATED

</Alert>

MongoDB is a cross-platform document-oriented database program. Classified as a NoSQL, MongoDB uses JSON-like documents with schema.

<Alert type="info">

Check out [this video guide][guides.getting-started.create-a-database] to create and deploy your first database

</Alert>

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/docs/using-qovery/configuration/database/mongodb.md.erb
-->

## Create a MongoDB database

TODO

## Modes

### Managed Service

TODO

### Container

TODO

## Link your MongoDB database to your application

TODO

<Alert type="danger">

Your Docker image must contain the TLS certificate of the MongoDB cluster - it
can be [downloaded here](https://s3.amazonaws.com/rds-downloads/rds-combined-ca-bundle.pem).

The application must be configured to use it. If you use the environment variable
`QOVERY_DATABASE_MY_MONGODB_CONNECTION_URI`, you usually should have just append
`&ssl_ca_certs=/path/to/the/rds-combined-ca-bundle.pem` to its value.

</Alert>

## Supported versions

Qovery supports the following MongoDB versions.

|Version|Supported|
|---------|-------|
|4.2|Yes|
|4.0|Yes|

## Credentials

TODO

## Manage logical databases

TODO

## Health check

TODO

## Delete your MongoDB instance

<Alert type="danger">

Delete action drops the service and its data!

</Alert>

To delete a database, you have to:

- Remove it from the configuration file, commit and push.
- Delete it manually (for security purpose) through the [Qovery web interface][urls.start_qovery].

<Alert type="info">

Backups from production environments are kept for 1 month if you need to recover.

</Alert>

## Backups

Daily backups for your Backups database are automatically done for databases in managed mode.

## Scaling

TODO


[guides.getting-started.create-a-database]: /guides/getting-started/create-a-database/
[urls.start_qovery]: https://start.qovery.com
