---
last_modified_on: "2021-07-09"
title: Become an Ambassador
description: Be a community ambassador and get highly rewarded
---

import Alert from '@site/src/components/Alert';

Qovery is awesome because our community members turns Qovery into a fantastic place.

<Alert type="success">

Become an ambassador and host 10 apps for free and for ever.

</Alert>

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/docs/community/become-an-ambassador.md.erb
-->

## What is an ambassador?
An ambassador is an active community member that help the other community members in:
- using Qovery.
- programming.
- technical topics.

on [Discord][urls.qovery_chat] and our [forum][urls.qovery_community].

## How to become an ambassador?

To become an ambassador, you need to check 2 of the following requirements:

- Be an active member on the [Forum][urls.qovery_community].
- Be an active member on [Discord][urls.qovery_chat].
- Contribute to the documentation.
- Contribute to one of [our open-source projects][urls.qovery_repo].
- Create tutorial on how to use Qovery.
- Create video on how to use Qovery.
- Be an active participant on our [Community Calls][urls.qovery_community_call].

## Benefits

- Get the Qovery [welcome pack][urls.qovery_shop] 😎.
- $150 monthly recurrent Qovery credits to host your apps for free.
- Early Qovery access.
- Direct communication with the Qovery team.

## How to apply?

Complete [this form][urls.qovery_ambassador_application_form] to request becoming an ambassador.
Your profile will be analyzed and submitted to our existing ambassadors for validation.

## FAQ

### Can I be an ambassador and win rewards?

Absolutely, you can be an ambassador and also win [rewards][docs.community.reward]. So you cumulate your Qovery credits.

### What is an active member on Discord?

An active member on Discord is a user that:
- Be welcoming
- Connects multiple times a week to our Discord.
- Take the time to chat with other members.
- Try to help as much as possible other users.
- Give product feedback.
- Report bugs.
- Share interesting news about any technical topics.

### What is an active member on our Forum?

An active member on our Forum is a user that:
- Be welcoming
- Connects multiple times a week to our Forum.
- Take the time to respond to the questions from other members.
- Give product feedback.
- Report bugs.
- Share interesting news about any technical topics.

### How to contribute to the documentation?

Is there anything that you see in the documentation that would be great to improve? Our [documentation][urls.qovery_github_documentation] is open-source. Feel free to contribute.

### Do you have an official list of current ambassadors?

Not yet, but maybe you can help us to create a beautiful one? :) [Reach me out][urls.qovery_chat]


[docs.community.reward]: /docs/community/reward/
[urls.qovery_ambassador_application_form]: https://qovery.typeform.com/to/WrWxWR9t
[urls.qovery_chat]: https://discord.qovery.com
[urls.qovery_community]: https://discuss.qovery.com/
[urls.qovery_community_call]: https://www.qovery.com/community-call
[urls.qovery_github_documentation]: https://github.com/Qovery/documentation
[urls.qovery_repo]: https://github.com/qovery
[urls.qovery_shop]: https://shop.qovery.com/
