---
last_modified_on: "2020-05-13"
title: Regions
description: Learn how to configure Regions on Qovery
---

import Alert from '@site/src/components/Alert';

Qovery is available in a number of different Regions. Each region is a self-contained copy of Qovery in a single datacenter. When you first create an [environment][docs.environment] you can specify which region it should be in.

<Alert type="info">

Each environment can be assigned to a different region

</Alert>

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/docs/using-qovery/configuration/regions.md.erb
-->

## Configuration

To specify the region you want to use you need to modify your `.qovery.yml`

```yaml title=".qovery.yml" {4}
application:
  name: jhipster-sample-app
  project: jhipster-sample-app
  cloud_region: aws/us-west-2
  publicly_accessible: true
routers:
  - name: main
    routes:
      - application_name: jhipster-sample-app
        paths:
          - /*
```

The format used is `{cloud_provider}/{cloud_provider_sregion}`

If you use a non supported region you will have an error from the linter:

```bash title="non-existing region"
ERROR:   aws/fake-region is not a valid region
SOLUTION: Valid cloud regions: aws/us-east-2, aws/us-west-2, aws/eu-west-3

Total errors found: 1
```

## Region

### Community plan

The following regions are available:

<Alert type="info">

More regions will come in the near future

</Alert>

#### AWS

* eu-west-3 (Paris, France)
* us-east-2 (Ohio, United States)
* us-west-2 (Oregon, United States)

Do you want to speed up the support of a specific AWS region? [Tell us][urls.qovery_chat]

### Enterprise plan

With the enterprise plan, Qovery can be deployed on any region supported by AWS, GCP, and Azure - on your own Cloud provider account.

## FAQ

### How to choose a region?

Different datacenters are located in different geographic areas, and you may want to keep your site physically close to the bulk of your user base for reduced latency.

### Migrate between regions

You can't migrate an environment from one region to another after it is created.


[docs.environment]: /docs/main-concepts/environment/
[urls.qovery_chat]: https://discord.qovery.com
