---
last_modified_on: "2020-04-22"
title: "Application"
description: "Understand the concept of Qovery application"
---
In our terminology, **application** is a program versioned by Git that is run and managed by Qovery.
An application repository should contain a `Dockerfile` - Qovery uses **Docker** container runtime to run applications.
The last thing - to deploy applications to Qovery, you need to add a Qovery configuration. Here is the minimal configuration file:

```yaml title=".qovery.yml"
application:
  name: myapp
  project: test
  region: "aws/us-west-2" # refer to available regions
```

TODO - IMAGE - GIT REPO WITH DOCKERFILE, CONFIG AND SRC FOLDER

After you commit and push this file to your repository, Qovery automatically deploys your application.

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/docs/main-concepts/application.md.erb
-->

## Git Driven Infrastructure (GitOps)
Qovery automatically manages your application and everything it needs to run. That means you treat your infrastructure dependencies as a part of your application.
If your application needs a PostgreSQL database, **all you need to do is to edit the configuration file, commit and push your changes**:

```yaml title=".qovery.yml" {5-8}
application:
  name: myapp
  project: test
  region: "aws/us-west-2"
databases:
- type: postgresql
  version: "11.5"
  name: my-postgresql
```

TODO - IMAGE - GIT REPO -> DOCKERFILE + CONFIG FILE -> APPLICATION + DATABASE DEPLOYED

It means you keep your infrastructure needs under version-control as a part of your application.

## Rich selection of integrated services
Qovery integrates, provisions, and manages all kinds of services and infrastructure dependencies your application may need. We provide a rich selection of services
that you can use in your application just by adding a few lines to your config file.

| Services        | Examples                        |
| -------------   |---------------------------------|
| Databases       | SQL, NoSQL databases and caches |
| Brokers         | Message queuing systems         |
| Storage         | Data storage e.g., S3           |
| Network         | Custom DNS, SSL/TLS             |

TODO - IMAGE - DATABASES & OTHER SERVICES LOGOS

After you define your needs in the configuration file, Qovery provides all the required infrastructure. Since now, all you need to do is to implement your business features!

## All languages and frameworks supported
To make Qovery flexible and efficient, we decided to use containers as a runtime for applications. Due to this fact, Qovery can run any software you need.
The only thing you need to do to run your applications on Qovery is to provide a Dockerfile in your application repository.

TODO - IMAGE - APPS & FRAMEWORKS LOGOS

## Consistent development environment
At Qovery, we believe your application should behave the same on your local machine as in your production environment. We can achieve this
using Docker runtime and **Qovery CLI** features that auto-magically run your application on your machine in the same way as it runs in production.

TODO - IMAGE - LOCAL APP == DEPLOYED APP



