---
last_modified_on: "2020-09-02"
title: Qovery Business
description: "Everything you need to know about Qovery Business concepts"
sidebar_label: hidden
hide_pagination: true
---
**Qovery Community** allows developers to deploy applications and their dependencies without friction. It is a superpower
in hands of developers, which allows them to focus on developing their applications instead of thinking about infrastructure
and deployments.

While it satisfies developer needs, fast growing startups and enterprises needs greater control over their applications, teams,
costs and configuration. This is where Qovery Business comes in.

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/docs/main-concepts/business.md.erb
-->

## Qovery Business

### Your applications, your cloud account
One of the greatest benefits of moving to Business version is that your projects are deployed on your own cloud account.
We take care of the whole process of setting up your environment - from bootstrapping Kubernetes clusters to application deployment.
All we need is the access to your cloud account. Of course, it's highly customizable and you have the power to edit or override
the default behaviours.

### Your organization, your rules
Each organization has its own unique approach to dealing with people, communication and teams. We value your uniqueness and thus
we give you the ability to create very fine-grained rules that mirror your organization. Spliting responsibilities, creating teams,
assigning roles, enforcing company-wide restrictions (e.g. allowing to use PostgreSQL only) and much more.



