---
last_modified_on: "2020-04-01"
$schema: "/.meta/.schemas/guides.json"
title: Monitoring Qovery
description: How to monitoring and observe Qovery in production
series_position: 4
author_github: https://github.com/binarylogic
tags: ["type: guide", "domain: observability"]
---

import Alert from '@site/src/components/Alert';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Now that you've deployed Qovery you'll want to make sure it's healthy and
performing. This guide will cover how to monitor and observe Qovery.

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/guides/getting-started/monitoring.md.erb
-->

## Metrics

<Alert type="info">

Internal observability of Qovery is being _actively_ developed and is on our
[1.0 roadmap][urls.qovery_roadmap]. You can expect a new `internal_metrics`
[source][docs.sources] that will allow you to run internal Qovery metrics
through a Qovery pipeline.

</Alert>

## Logs

Qovery writes all logs to `STDOUT`, accessing these logs is dependent on how
you installed Qovery.

<Tabs
  block={false}
  centered={true}
  groupId="interfaces"
  placeholder="How did you install Qovery?"
  select={true}
  size={"lg"}
  values={[{"group":"Package managers","label":"DPKG","value":"dpkg"},{"group":"Platforms","label":"Docker CLI","value":"docker-cli"},{"group":"Platforms","label":"Docker Compose","value":"docker-compose"},{"group":"Package managers","label":"Homebrew","value":"homebrew"},{"group":"Package managers","label":"MSI","value":"msi"},{"group":"Package managers","label":"Nix","value":"nix"},{"group":"Package managers","label":"RPM","value":"rpm"},{"group":"Nones","label":"Qovery CLI","value":"qovery-cli"}]}>
<TabItem value="dpkg">

The Qovery DEB package installs Qovery as a Systemd service. Logs can be
accessed through the `journalctl` utility:

```bash
sudo journalctl -fu qovery
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="docker-cli">

If you've started Qovery through the `docker` CLI you can access Qovery's logs
via the `docker logs` command. First, find the Qovery container ID:

```bash
docker ps | grep qovery
```

Copy Qovery's container ID and use it to tail the logs:

```bash
docker logs -f <container-id>
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="docker-compose">

If you started Qovery through Docker compose you can use the following command
to access Qovery's logs:

```bash
docker-compose logs -f qovery
```

Replace `qovery` with the name of Qovery's service if it is not called `qovery`.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="homebrew">

When Qovery is started through Homebrew the logs are automatically routed to
`/usr/local/var/log/qovery.log`. You can tail them with the `tail` utility:

```bash
tail -f /usr/local/var/log/qovery.log
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="msi">

The Qovery MSI package does not install Qovery into a proces manager. Therefore,
Qovery must be started by executing the Qovery binary directly. Qovery's logs
are written to `STDOUT`. You are in charge of routing `STDOUT`, and this
determines how you access Qovery's logs.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="nix">

The Qovery Nix package does not install Qovery into a proces manager. Therefore,
Qovery must be started by executing the Qovery binary directly. Qovery's logs
are written to `STDOUT`. You are in charge of routing `STDOUT`, and this
determines how you access Qovery's logs.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="rpm">

The Qovery RPM package installs Qovery as a Systemd service. Logs can be
accessed through the `journalctl` utility:

```bash
sudo journalctl -fu qovery
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="qovery-cli">

If you are starting Qovery directly from the Qovery CLI then all logs will be
written to `STDOUT`. You are in charge of routing `STDOUT`, and this determines
how you access Qovery's logs.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## What To Expect

How Qovery performs is largely dependent on your configuration, hardware,
data shape, and volume. No two deployments perform the same! With that said,
Qovery should perform well in most cases. The following sections provide general
references points for what you can expect in production.

### Benchmarks

Our [performance benchmarks][urls.qovery_performance] are the best point of
reference when understanding how Qovery performs. This data should give you a
general idea of Qovery's performance under different scenarios.

### Throughput

Qovery should be relatively high throughput. One a 4 core machine should produce
throughput between 20mb/s to 100mb/s depending on your data and configuration.

### CPU

Qovery is mostly CPU bound and benefits from more cores and CPU efficient
machines.

### Memory

Qovery should use very little memory. For average pipelines Qovery uses around
200mb, but this can vary widely dependind on your configuraton.


[docs.sources]: /docs/reference/sources/
[urls.qovery_performance]: https://qovery.dev/#performance
[urls.qovery_roadmap]: https://github.com/qovery/documentation/milestones?direction=asc&sort=due_date&state=open
