---
last_modified_on: "2025-03-13"
$schema: "/.meta/.schemas/guides.json"
title: How to connect to your Qovery managed cluster with kubectl
description: How to connect to your Qovery managed cluster with kubectl
author_github: https://github.com/l0ck3
tags: ["type: tutorial", "installation_guide: kubernetes"]
hide_pagination: true
---

import Steps from '@site/src/components/Steps';

import Alert from '@site/src/components/Alert';
import Assumptions from '@site/src/components/Assumptions';
import Jump from '@site/src/components/Jump';

Qovery makes it easy to create a managed cluster on your cloud account (AWS, GCP etc..) and manage the deployment of applications on it. But you still might want to execute operations on it via `kubectl` like you would on any other Kubernetes cluster.

<Assumptions name="guide">

* You have an existing EKS/GKE/Kapsule cluster manages by Qovery

</Assumptions>

<Alert type="warning">
  Be aware that any operation you do manually on your cluster could conflict with Qovery. We would advise to not use this method for anything else than connecting to a container with `kubectl exec`
</Alert>

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/guides/tutorial/how-to-connect-to-your-eks-cluster-with-kubectl.md.erb
-->

## Goal

This tutorial will show you how to access a Qovery managed cluster on AWS with `kubectl` and shell into a running application container.

<Steps headingDepth={3}>

## Important information

In this tutorial, we will use the Kubeconfig and credentials automatically generated by Qovery via the Qovery CLI. To do this, you need to be either an Organization Admin or a Cluster Admin.
  
If you want to use your own set of credentials to access the Kubernetes cluster, make sure you have the right permissions to access both your cloud account and the Kubernetes cluster.

For example, on AWS, a user doesn't get access to the Kubernetes API by default. To gain access, you have two possibilities:
- EKS access entry: Via the AWS console, you can manually add users to the [EKS access entry](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/access-entries.html) of the cluster.
- SSO: You can automate the provisioning/deprovisioning of Kubernetes access using the [AWS SSO feature](https://aws.amazon.com/fr/blogs/containers/a-quick-path-to-amazon-eks-single-sign-on-using-aws-sso/)


<ol>

<li>

#### Install and configure your toolchain

**kubectl**

To interact with your cluster, you will need `kubectl` installed.
[https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)

**Cloud provider CLI**

Depending on your cloud provider, you might need its CLI to authenticate or retrieve the Kubeconfig.

For example, you might need the [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-getting-started.html) or [GCP CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install).

**Qovery CLI**

The Qovery CLI is required to get the kubeconfig file of your cluster:
[https://hub.qovery.com/docs/using-qovery/interface/cli/](https://hub.qovery.com/docs/using-qovery/interface/cli/)

</li>

<li>

#### Retrieve Kubeconfig and credentials

To get the kubeconfig file of your cluster, run the following command to list your clusters and get the desired cluster ID:

```bash
$ qovery cluster list
Id                                   | Name                 | Type    | Status   | Last Update
xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx | Qovery Prod          | cluster | DEPLOYED | 2024-10-11 07:40:33.562523 +0000 UTC
```

Then run the following command to get the kubeconfig file (replace with your cluster ID):

```bash
$ qovery cluster kubeconfig --cluster-id xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx
INFO[2024-11-01T11:42:49+01:00] Kubeconfig file created in the current directory. 
INFO[2024-11-01T11:42:49+01:00] Execute `export KUBECONFIG=/Users/user/kubeconfig-xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx.yaml` to use it.
```

The path of your kubeconfig file will be displayed in the output. You can now use it to set the context for `kubectl`.

</li>

<li>

#### Set the context for kubectl

Following the output of the previous command, to set the context for kubectl, run the following command:

```bash
export KUBECONFIG=<path to the kubeconfig file you downloaded>
```

You can check that it works with a kubectl command. For example:

```bash
kubectl get nodes
```

You are good to go if you see an output like the following:

```bash
NAME              STATUS   ROLES    AGE   VERSION
zb81b1cd4-ub667   Ready    <none>   14d   v1.19.15
zb81b1cd4-ujkm8   Ready    <none>   24d   v1.19.15
zb81b1cd4-ujkmc   Ready    <none>   24d   v1.19.15
```
</li>


<li>

#### Get your application namespace

When you deploy an application, Qovery will create a separate namespace for each environment on your Kubernetes cluster.

You can get the list of the namespaces on your cluster using the following command:

```bash
kubectl get namespaces
```

You will get an output similar to this one:

```bash
NAME                  STATUS        AGE
cert-manager          Active        44d
default               Active        44d
kube-node-lease       Active        44d
kube-public           Active        44d
kube-system           Active        44d
logging               Active        44d
nginx-ingress         Active        44d
prometheus            Active        44d
qovery                Active        44d
z0121531e-namespac1   Active        35d
z016bd165-namespac2   Active        31d
```

The Qovery application namespaces are the ones begining with `z`.

In case you have several environments running, to identify the right one:

- Go to the Qovery console
- Go to the right environment

In your URL bar you'll have something like:

`https://console.qovery.com/platform/organization/<organisation id>/projects/<project id>/environments/<environment id>/applications`


The environment namespace is defined the following way: `z<environment short ID>-<sanitized environment name>`.

The short ID is the first section of the ID. For example, given the following ID: `e0aabc0d-99cb-4867-ad39-332d6162c32c`, the short ID will be `e0aabc0d`.

The following environment "production site" with URL: `https://console.qovery.com/platform/organization/<organisation ID>/projects/e0aabc0d-99cb-4867-ad39-332d6162c32c/environments/b91d2eb8-a850-49b5-8626-ade7afc4a28b/applications`
would translate to the following namespace: `zb91d2eb8-production-site`.
</li>

<li>

#### Identify the right application pod(s)

To list the pods running in your environment namespace, run the following command:

```bash
kubectl get pods --namespace <your namespace>
```

The output should be similar to this one:

```bash
NAME                                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
app-z2fc29b74-backend-5db6745975-nrw8v    1/1     Running   0          29h
app-zabbcf976-frontend-74f969f848-kzp87   1/1     Running   0          29h
```

The same principle goes for finding the right application pod. Go to the application page on the Qovery console.

You'll get an URL looking like this:

`https://console.qovery.com/platform/organization/<organisation ID>/projects/<project ID>/environments/<environment ID>/applications/abbcf976-27a1-4531-9cdd-e4d15d7b2c27/summary`

Get the short ID of our application and its name, in our case `abbcf976` and `backend` which means the application pod name will start with `app-zabbcf976-frontend`. The app might start with "app", "job", "cronjob", "database" depending on its type.

In case you setup your app to run multiple replicas, it is possible that you see several pods begining with the same string. You can pick any of them.

</li>

<li>

#### Shell into the container

<Alert type="info">

If you don't want to use kubectl, you can directly use the Qovery CLI Shell feature. Check our [documentation here][docs.using-qovery.interface.cli#shell] to know more about it.

</Alert>


To get a shell access to the container running inside the application pod, all you have to do is:

```bash
kubectl exec -ti --namespace <your namespace> <your pod name> -- sh
```

This will open a shell inside of your application container. You can now execute any command you need.
</li>
</ol>

</Steps>

## Conclusion

Qovery helps you manage your Kubernetes cluster and deploy your applications on it while still giving you the power of a full access to your cluster.

<Alert type="note">
  Soon you will be able to achieve the same thing through the Qovery CLI.
</Alert>


[docs.using-qovery.interface.cli#shell]: /docs/using-qovery/interface/cli/#shell
