---
last_modified_on: "2020-04-16"
title: Quick Start
sidebar_label: hidden
description: Qovery's internal data model -- event and it's subtypes.
---

import Jump from '@site/src/components/Jump';
import SVG from 'react-inlinesvg';

<SVG src="/img/data-model-event.svg" />

The individual pieces of data flowing through Qovery are known as **events**.
Events are arbitrarily wide, and deep, structured pieces of data. They have no
requirements or limitations. Ideally, events contain enough rich information
to derive any type of monitoring data from it.

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/docs/getting-started/quickstart.md.erb
-->

## Event Types

Qovery defines subtypes for events. This is necessary to establish domain
specific requriements enabling interoperability with existing monitoring and
observability systems.

<Jump to="/docs/getting-started/quickstart/add-database/">Add database</Jump>
<Jump to="/docs/getting-started/quickstart/create-an-account/">Create an account</Jump>
<Jump to="/docs/getting-started/quickstart/deploy-backend-application/">Deploy backend application</Jump>
<Jump to="/docs/getting-started/quickstart/install-cli/">Install cli</Jump>
<Jump to="/docs/getting-started/quickstart/manage-environment-variables/">Manage environment variables</Jump>

## FAQ

### Why Not _Just_ Events?

We, _very much_, like the idea of an event only world, one where every service
is perfectly instrumented with events that contain rich data and context.
Unfortunately, that is not the case; exisiting services usually emit metrics,
traces, and logs of varying quality. By designing Qovery to meet services where
they are (current state), we serve as a bridge to newer standards. This is why
we place "events" at the top of our data model, where logs and metrics are
derived.

Finally, a sophisticated data model that accounts for the various data types
allows for _correct_ interoperability between observability systems. For
example, a pipeline with a `statsd` source and a `prometheus` sink would not
be possible without the correct internal metrics data types.



