---
last_modified_on: "2023-03-15"
title: "Jenkins"
description: "Learn how to connect Jenkins to Qovery"
---

import Alert from '@site/src/components/Alert';

Using Jenkins with Qovery is super powerful and gives you the ability to manage the way that you want to deploy your applications. As the possibility are endless, I will share with you a couple of examples that you can use. Feel free to adapt them to your need.

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/docs/using-qovery/integration/continuous-integration/jenkins.md.erb
-->

## Prerequisites

Before using the examples below, you need to:

1. Install the [Qovery CLI][docs.using-qovery.interface.cli].
2. Generate an [API token][docs.using-qovery.interface.cli#generate-api-token].
3. Set the environment variable `QOVERY_CLI_ACCESS_TOKEN` (`export QOVERY_CLI_ACCESS_TOKEN=your-api-token`) with your API token.
4. You have turned off the [Qovery Auto Deployment][docs.using-qovery.configuration.environment#auto-deploy-environment] for your environment that you want to deploy manually.

## Jenkins Examples

Since Jenkins also provides a .yaml file to configure your pipeline. Refers to [GitLab CI][docs.using-qovery.integration.continuous-integration.gitlab-ci#gitlab-ci-examples] and [GitHub Actions][docs.using-qovery.integration.continuous-integration.github-actions#github-actions-examples] examples to learn how to configure your pipeline with Qovery.

## Qovery CLI command examples

### Deploy your application with a specific commit ID

```bash
qovery application deploy \
  --organization <your_org_name> \
  --project <your_project_name> \
  --environment <your_environment_name> \
  --application <your_app_name> \
  --commit-id <your_commit_id> \
  --watch
```

<Alert type="success">

`--watch` is an optional parameter that will display the status of the deployment and return 0 if the deployment is successful or 1 if it fails.

</Alert>

### Deploy your multiple applications with a different commit ID

```bash
# deploy the application 1 and wait for the deployment to be successful with the --watch argument
qovery application deploy \
  --organization <your_org_name> \
  --project <your_project_name> \
  --environment <your_environment_name> \
  --application <your_app_1_name> \
  --commit-id <your_commit_id> \
  --watch

# deploy the application 2 and wait for the deployment to be successful with the --watch argument
qovery application deploy \
  --organization <your_org_name> \
  --project <your_project_name> \
  --environment <your_environment_name> \
  --application <your_app_2_name> \
  --commit-id <your_commit_id> \
  --watch
```
This is also applicable for the `qovery container deploy`, `qovery lifecycle deploy`, and `qovery cronjob deploy` commands.

### Deploy your multiple applications with a specific commit ID (monorepo)

```bash
# deploy the application 1, 2 and 3 with the same commit ID and wait for the deployment to be successful with the --watch argument
qovery application deploy \
  --organization <your_org_name> \
  --project <your_project_name> \
  --environment <your_environment_name> \
  --applications "<app_1_name>, <app_2_name>, <app_3_name>" \
  --commit-id <your_commit_id> \
  --watch
```

This is also applicable for the `qovery container deploy`, `qovery lifecycle deploy`, and `qovery cronjob deploy` commands.

### Create a Preview Environment for your Pull-Request

Qovery integrates automatically with GitHub, GitLab and Bitbucket to create a Preview Environment for each Pull-Request. But in case you want to control the creation of the Preview Environment manually, you can use the following commands:

```shell
# Clone your base environment
qovery environment clone \
  --organization <your_org_name> \
  --project <your_project_name> \
  --environment <your_environment_name> \
  --new-environment-name <your_new_environment_name>

# Change your application branch to the Pull-Request branch
qovery application update \
  --organization <your_org_name> \
  --project <your_project_name> \
  --environment <your_new_environment_name> \
  --application <your_app_name> \
  --branch <your_pull_request_branch_name>

# Deploy your new environment
qovery environment deploy \
  --organization <your_org_name> \
  --project <your_project_name> \
  --environment <your_new_environment_name> \
  --watch
```

### Delete a Preview Environment

```shell
qovery environment delete \
  --organization <your_org_name> \
  --project <your_project_name> \
  --environment <your_preview_environment_name> \
  --watch
```

### Terraform

Do you want to include Terraform in your CI? Check out our [Terraform documentation][docs.using-qovery.integration.terraform].

### Any other examples?

Feel free to share your examples with us, and we'll be happy to share them with the community. Contact us on [our forum][urls.qovery_forum].


[docs.using-qovery.configuration.environment#auto-deploy-environment]: /docs/using-qovery/configuration/environment/#auto-deploy-environment
[docs.using-qovery.integration.continuous-integration.github-actions#github-actions-examples]: /docs/using-qovery/integration/continuous-integration/github-actions/#github-actions-examples
[docs.using-qovery.integration.continuous-integration.gitlab-ci#gitlab-ci-examples]: /docs/using-qovery/integration/continuous-integration/gitlab-ci/#gitlab-ci-examples
[docs.using-qovery.integration.terraform]: /docs/using-qovery/integration/terraform/
[docs.using-qovery.interface.cli#generate-api-token]: /docs/using-qovery/interface/cli/#generate-api-token
[docs.using-qovery.interface.cli]: /docs/using-qovery/interface/cli/
[urls.qovery_forum]: https://discuss.qovery.com/
