---
last_modified_on: "2024-02-22"
title: "Quickstart"
description: "Learn how to install and configure Qovery on your own Kubernetes cluster (BYOK) / Self-managed Kubernetes cluster"
---

import Steps from '@site/src/components/Steps';
import Alert from '@site/src/components/Alert';

<Alert type="info">

This section is for Kubernetes power-users. If you are not familiar with Kubernetes, we recommend you to use Qovery on a Managed Kubernetes cluster on [AWS][docs.getting-started.install-qovery.aws.cluster-managed-by-qovery.quickstart], [GCP][docs.getting-started.install-qovery.gcp.cluster-managed-by-qovery.quickstart], [Scaleway][docs.getting-started.install-qovery.scaleway.cluster-managed-by-qovery.quickstart], [Azure][docs.getting-started.install-qovery.azure.cluster-managed-by-qovery.quickstart], or contact us.

</Alert>

Qovery Self-Managed (or BYOK: Bring Your Own Kubernetes) is a self-hosted version of Qovery. It allows you to install Qovery on your own Kubernetes cluster.
Read [this article](https://www.qovery.com/blog/kubernetes-cluster-managed-by-qovery-vs-self-managed-byok) to better understand the difference with the Managed Kubernetes by Qovery. In a nutshell, Qovery BYOK is for Kubernetes experts who want to manage their own Kubernetes cluster. In this version, Qovery does not manage the Kubernetes cluster for you.

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/docs/getting-started/install-qovery/kubernetes/quickstart.md.erb
-->

## ⚠️ Important considerations

The current state of Qovery BYOK is still in beta. We are working hard to improve it and make it production-ready. Here are some important considerations:

- Contact us if you want to use Qovery BYOK in production. We can assess your setup and validate it's good to go. 
  - Even if Qovery BYOK is in beta, the Qovery Control Plane and the Qovery Engine are production-ready. BYOK is a lightweight version of our Managed Qovery offer and need time to externalize some configuration parameters mostly. We don't risk to break your cluster, but we prefer be cautious. 
- Qovery BYOK is free during the beta period. We will communicate the pricing soon.
- Some features are not available yet. Refer to the table below to see what is available and what is not.

| Release date           | Feature                                                        |
|------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|
| ✅ Delivered (Dec 2023) | Install Qovery BYOK on your **AWS and GCP** Kubernetes cluster |
| ✅ Delivered (Dec 2023) | Deploy your applications                                       |
| ✅ Delivered (Dec 2023) | Fetch logs                                                     |
| End of January 2024    | Install Qovery BYOK on **any** Kubernetes cluster              |

<Alert type="warning">

Qovery automatically updates **ONLY** the Qovery applications (agent, shell-agent etc..) via the Qovery Helm chart. With the self-managed offer it will be up to you to manage any dependency components (ingress, dns, logging...), making sure they run with the right version over time.

The dependencies provided with the Qovery Helm chart are here to help you with the bootstrap, and are not maintained by Qovery. If you want to simplify the maintenance of your cluster, please look at [Qovery managed Kubernetes offer](https://www.qovery.com/pricing/).

</Alert>

## Requirements

Have a look at the [Requirements][docs.getting-started.install-qovery.kubernetes.requirements] section.


## Install your cluster

If you already have one you can skip this section.

<Alert type="success">

Follow [this guide][docs.getting-started.install-qovery.kubernetes.create-k8s-cluster] to test Qovery BYOK on a demo cluster.

</Alert>


## Install Qovery

<Alert type="info">

For a more in depth view on how to install it on AWS, have a [look at this page][docs.getting-started.install-qovery.kubernetes.installation-aws].

</Alert>

<Steps headingDepth={3}>

<ol>

<li>

Install [Helm][urls.helm] command line tool.

</li>

<li>

Add Qovery Helm repository.

<Alert type="warning">

Qovery Helm Chart is only available for users who have access to Qovery BYOK. [Request your access here](https://www.qovery.com/solutions/bring-your-own-kubernetes).

</Alert>

```bash
helm repo add qovery https://helm.qovery.com
helm repo update
```

</li>

<li>

Login to the [Qovery console][urls.qovery_console], create a cluster of type `Self-Managed`. At the end of the flow you will be able to download the `values.yaml` file associated with this cluster.

</li>

<li>

Now you can customize your values.yaml file based on your need. Learn more about the configuration in the [Configuration page][docs.getting-started.install-qovery.kubernetes.byok-config].

<Alert type="info">

Make sure that all fields having value `set-by-customer` are filled.

</Alert>

Learn more about the configuration in the [Configuration page][docs.getting-started.install-qovery.kubernetes.byok-config].

</li>

<li>

Install Qovery on your Kubernetes cluster.

```bash
helm upgrade --install --wait --atomic --create-namespace -n qovery -f <your-values-file.yaml> \
--set services.certificates.cert-manager-configs.enabled=false,services.certificates.qovery-cert-manager-webhook.enabled=false \
qovery qovery/qovery
```
* `-n qovery`: the namespace where Qovery and its dependencies will be installed
* `--set...`: override (only for the first deployment time, if you want to use Cert-Manager) to let cert-manager install its CRDs
* `-f your-values-file.yaml`: the values file you've downloaded, overrided with the Qovery config and your custom config
* `qovery/qovery`: name of the chart to deploy
* `qovery`: name of the release

If you want to use Cert-Manager, you can remove the `--set...` for the future updates (or if already installed):
```bash
helm upgrade --install --create-namespace -n qovery -f <your-values-file.yaml> qovery qovery/qovery
```

That's it, you can now use Qovery on your own Kubernetes cluster!

</li>

</ol>

</Steps>


[docs.getting-started.install-qovery.aws.cluster-managed-by-qovery.quickstart]: /docs/getting-started/install-qovery/aws/cluster-managed-by-qovery/quickstart/
[docs.getting-started.install-qovery.azure.cluster-managed-by-qovery.quickstart]: /docs/getting-started/install-qovery/azure/cluster-managed-by-qovery/quickstart/
[docs.getting-started.install-qovery.gcp.cluster-managed-by-qovery.quickstart]: /docs/getting-started/install-qovery/gcp/cluster-managed-by-qovery/quickstart/
[docs.getting-started.install-qovery.kubernetes.byok-config]: /docs/getting-started/install-qovery/kubernetes/byok-config/
[docs.getting-started.install-qovery.kubernetes.create-k8s-cluster]: /docs/getting-started/install-qovery/kubernetes/create-k8s-cluster/
[docs.getting-started.install-qovery.kubernetes.installation-aws]: /docs/getting-started/install-qovery/kubernetes/installation-aws/
[docs.getting-started.install-qovery.kubernetes.requirements]: /docs/getting-started/install-qovery/kubernetes/requirements/
[docs.getting-started.install-qovery.scaleway.cluster-managed-by-qovery.quickstart]: /docs/getting-started/install-qovery/scaleway/cluster-managed-by-qovery/quickstart/
[urls.helm]: https://helm.sh
[urls.qovery_console]: https://console.qovery.com
