---
last_modified_on: "2023-12-30"
title: "FAQ"
description: "Frequently asked questions about Kubernetes and AWS infrastructure with Qovery"
---

import Steps from '@site/src/components/Steps';
import Alert from '@site/src/components/Alert';
import Assumptions from '@site/src/components/Assumptions';

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/docs/getting-started/install-qovery/aws/cluster-managed-by-qovery/faq.md.erb
-->

## How Qovery works on AWS

Qovery is an abstraction layer on top of AWS and Kubernetes. Qovery manages the configuration of AWS account, and helps you to deploy production ready apps in seconds.
To make it works, Qovery rely on Kubernetes for stateless apps (containers), and  AWS for stateful apps (databases, storage...).

[Read more][docs.getting-started.how-qovery-works] on how Qovery works behind the scene.

### Kubernetes

The first time you set up your AWS account, Qovery creates a Kubernetes cluster in your chosen region. Qovery managed it for you - no action required. It takes ~15 minutes to configure and bootstrap a Kubernetes cluster. Once bootstrapped, your Kubernetes cluster runs the Qovery app and is ready to deploy your applications.

### Managed services

AWS provides managed services for [PostgreSQL][docs.using-qovery.configuration.database.postgresql], [MySQL][docs.using-qovery.configuration.database.mysql], [Redis][docs.using-qovery.configuration.database.redis], [MongoDB][docs.using-qovery.configuration.database.mongodb]. Qovery gives you access to those services when you set the [environment mode][docs.using-qovery.configuration.deployment-rule#environment-deployment-rules] to `Production`. In `Development` mode, Qovery provides containers equivalent, which is cheaper and faster to start.

### Security and compliance

Qovery runs your Kubernetes cluster and is autonomous to manage your applications, which means:
- Your configuration are stored on your AWS account.
- Your configuration is encrypted on your AWS account.
- Qovery can't access to your data.
- Suppose Qovery stops to run, your applications are not impacted.

## FAQ

### How to choose a region?

Different datacenters are located in different geographic areas, and you may want to keep your site physically close to the bulk of your user base for reduced latency.

### I don't find a region that is provided by AWS

We are probably testing the support of this region, please [contact us][urls.qovery_contact_us] to know what's the status

### Migrate between Cloud providers and regions

Today, you can't migrate an environment from one region to another after it has been created. Vote [here][urls.qovery_roadmap] if you need this feature.


[docs.getting-started.how-qovery-works]: /docs/getting-started/how-qovery-works/
[docs.using-qovery.configuration.database.mongodb]: /docs/using-qovery/configuration/database/mongodb/
[docs.using-qovery.configuration.database.mysql]: /docs/using-qovery/configuration/database/mysql/
[docs.using-qovery.configuration.database.postgresql]: /docs/using-qovery/configuration/database/postgresql/
[docs.using-qovery.configuration.database.redis]: /docs/using-qovery/configuration/database/redis/
[docs.using-qovery.configuration.deployment-rule#environment-deployment-rules]: /docs/using-qovery/configuration/deployment-rule/#environment-deployment-rules
[urls.qovery_contact_us]: https://www.qovery.com/contact
[urls.qovery_roadmap]: https://roadmap.qovery.com/
