---
last_modified_on: "2021-06-28"
title: Friend Sponsorship
description: Invite a friend to join Qovery and get both rewarded
---

import Alert from '@site/src/components/Alert';

The **Friend Sponsorship** referral program rewards you when you recommend and invite a friend to join Qovery.
More you invite friends and more you get rewarded. [read more][urls.qovery_billing_context].

In this page, I explain how you can earn free credits by inviting friends.

<Alert type="success">

Earn $15 Qovery credits both (referee and referrer) per invited friend.

</Alert>

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/docs/community/reward/friend-sponsorship.md.erb
-->

## Reward eligibility criteria

* The invited user is new on Qovery.
* You have invited less than 4 friends. (contact us if you plan to invite more people)

## How to invite a friend?

Share your referral link via [your web console][urls.start_qovery].

1. Your friend click on your link.
2. Your friend is redirected to create an account.
3. Your friend create an account.
4. You get both rewarded by receiving a $15 Qovery credits.

## FAQ

### Why do you reward users?

Read [this post][urls.qovery_billing_context] to know more about it.

### What is the "Qovery credits"?

It is a free credits that you can use on your Qovery Community and Startup plan.

### Can I pay to get more credits on my Community plan?

No you can’t pay to get more credits on your Community plan. *Read the question below 👇 to get a more detailed response*.

### Why don't you allow users to pay their credits?

**Qovery IS NOT a hosting platform and will never be**. We offer free hosting because it is our way to give back to the our developers community. But we want to encourage them to give back in return by helping each other and sharing their love of Qovery. See the “Community plan and free credits” section above.

### What happens if I no longer have credits for my Community plan?

We notify you to give back to the community to get more credits. If you have not taken any action within:
1. 48 hours, Qovery will shut down your applications.
2. 30 days, Qovery will permanently delete your applications

### How long I have to use my free credits?

You have 12 months to use your earned credits.

### Does credits are recurrent?

Credits are only recurrent for granted [ambassadors][docs.community.reward.ambassador].

### Can I be eligible to multiple rewards?

Absolutely.

### Can I use my free credits on my Startup and Enterprise plans?

Absolutely 🙂.


[docs.community.reward.ambassador]: /docs/community/reward/ambassador/
[urls.qovery_billing_context]: https://www.qovery.com/blog/how-qovery-billing-works
[urls.start_qovery]: https://start.qovery.com
