---
last_modified_on: "2021-06-28"
title: Video Record
description: Record a video of Qovery and get rewarded
---

import Alert from '@site/src/components/Alert';

The **Video Record** referral program rewards you when you record a video to share your knowledge using Qovery.
More you give back to the community and more you get rewarded. [read more][urls.qovery_billing_context].

In this page, I explain how you can earn free credits by recording videos.

<Alert type="success">

Earn up to $300 Qovery credits per recorded video

</Alert>

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the template located at:

     website/docs/community/reward/video-record.md.erb
-->

## Reward eligibility criteria

* The recorded video must be related to Qovery.
* The recorded video must be original. (we check)
* The recorded video length must be at least of 10 minutes.
* The recorded video must be in English.
* The recorded video must be hosted on your [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com) channel.

## How to submit my video?

Complete [this form][urls.qovery_submit_video_form].

## What should I record?

You can record whatever you want. It must only be related to Qovery. Feedback, tutorials, demo, use-cases... Anything you think that could be valuable to the developers' community.

## Examples

Here is a list of interesting videos that we are eager to see recorded by our community. Obviously, those topics are just examples, you can record on the topic of your choice.

| Title example | Description | Reward |
|---------------|-------------|--------|
| How to deploy Strapi with Qovery | Explain how to deploy Strapi with Qovery | $300 Qovery credits
| How to deploy Hasura with Qovery | Explain how to deploy Hasura with Qovery | $300 Qovery credits
| How to deploy a Rust app with Qovery | Explain how to deploy a Rust app with Qovery | $300 Qovery credits
| How to deploy a NodeJS app with Qovery | Explain how to deploy a NodeJS app with Qovery | $300 Qovery credits
| How to deploy X with Qovery | Same as above, but with the framework/technology/language of your choice | $300 Qovery credits

## FAQ

### Why do you reward users?

Read [this post][urls.qovery_billing_context] to know more about it.

### What is the "Qovery credits"?

It is a free credits that you can use on your Qovery Community and Startup plan.

### Can I pay to get more credits on my Community plan?

No you can’t pay to get more credits on your Community plan. *Read the question below 👇 to get a more detailed response*.

### Why don't you allow users to pay their credits?

**Qovery IS NOT a hosting platform and will never be**. We offer free hosting because it is our way to give back to the our developers community. But we want to encourage them to give back in return by helping each other and sharing their love of Qovery. See the “Community plan and free credits” section above.

### What happens if I no longer have credits for my Community plan?

We notify you to give back to the community to get more credits. If you have not taken any action within:
1. 48 hours, Qovery will shut down your applications.
2. 30 days, Qovery will permanently delete your applications

### How long I have to use my free credits?

You have 12 months to use your earned credits.

### Does credits are recurrent?

Credits are only recurrent for granted [ambassadors][docs.community.reward.ambassador].

### Can I be eligible to multiple rewards?

Absolutely.

### Can I use my free credits on my Startup and Enterprise plans?

Absolutely 🙂.


[docs.community.reward.ambassador]: /docs/community/reward/ambassador/
[urls.qovery_billing_context]: https://www.qovery.com/blog/how-qovery-billing-works
[urls.qovery_submit_video_form]: https://qovery.typeform.com/to/YE890XT0
